The President: Hi, everybody.
It's our job as citizens to
make sure we keep pushing
this country we love toward
our most cherished ideals -
that all of us are created
equal, and all of us deserve
an equal shot.
This week, my Administration
took new steps to bring us
a little closer to that goal.
Almost 50 years ago,
Republicans and Democrats
in Congress came together to
pass the Fair Housing Act.
It's a law that says landlords
can't turn away tenants
solely because of their race,
religion, sex, national
origin, or disability.
And it made a difference
in this country.
Still, the work of the Fair
Housing Act remains unfinished.
Just a few weeks ago, the
Supreme Court ruled that
policies segregating
minorities in poor
neighborhoods, even
unintentionally,
are against the law.
The Court recognized what
many people know to be true
from their own lives: that
too often, where people
live determines what
opportunities they
have in life.
In some cities, kids living
just blocks apart lead
incredibly different lives.
They go to different schools,
play in different parks,
shop in different stores, and
walk down different streets.
And often, the quality of
those schools and the safety
of those parks and streets
are far from equal -
which means those kids
aren't getting an equal
shot in life.
That runs against the values
we hold dear as Americans.
In this country,
of all countries,
a person's zip code
shouldn't decide their destiny
We don't
guarantee equal outcomes,
but we do strive to guarantee
an equal shot at opportunity -
in every neighborhood,
for every American.
Now, the Fair Housing
Act also says that this
isn't the responsibility
of a landlord alone -
local governments have
a role to play, too.
That's why, this week, my
Administration announced
that we'll make it
easier for communities
to implement this law.
We're using data on housing
and neighborhood conditions
to help cities identify the
areas that need the most help.
We're doing more to
help communities meet
their own goals.
Plus, by opening this
data to everybody,
everyone in a community -
not just elected officials -
can weigh in.
If you want a bus stop
added near your home,
or more affordable
housing nearby,
now you'll have the data
you need to make your case.
These actions won't make
every community perfect.
That's something we all have to
strive for in our own lives.
But they will help make
our communities stronger
and more vibrant.
And they'll help keep this a
country where kids from
every background can grow up
knowing that no matter who
you are, what you look
like, or where you live,
you can write your
own story.
That's the America I love.
And it's the America
I'll keep fighting for.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.